---
layout: post
title: copies from the ocean
---


I use [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com) which is awesome and makes
things super smooth for me. Getting a droplet up and running is a breeze. The
only thing I would complain about is the lack of an easy way to export your
data. As far as I know currently one can make snapshots, but they can only be
deleted, transferred to different regions and used for creations of new
droplets. I wish they had a download your snapshot for off line storage.

After talking with my neighbor about how dependent I am on DigitalOcean, he
purposed to use [`scp`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_copy) for
transferring important files. After thinking about it I ended up using
[`rsync`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rsync) for transfer and git for tracking
the changes that are sent via email:

    #!/bin/sh
    
    log_file=server_name_dig.log
    backup_ret=""
    message="Backup of $src on `date`"
    
    backup() {
      src=server_name.tld:/
      dst=/backups/digitalocean/server_name/
      recipient=a@server_name.tld
      mkdir -p $dst
      backup_ret=`rsync --exclude /proc --exclude /sys -zavrR --delete --links --rsh="ssh -l root" $src $dst`
    }
    
    write_log_and_commit() {
      echo "$backup_ret" >> "$log_file"
      git add "$log_file"; git commit "$log_file" -m $message;
    }
    
    email_me() {
      git show | mail -s $message $recipient
    }
    
    backup
    write_log_and_commit
    email_me

I decided to ignore `/proc` and `/sys` because they were causing much noise.
There might be more files to ignore, but for now this is great for me.
